Then we've got our fancy text.
And I'm going to show
you this article here.
So I gave you a link to this article
inside of the web page that talks to you
about creating so-called
low highlight text.
And this is a way that you can, and I'm
just gonna scroll real fast on down here.
Different kinds of highlights
here you can put on your text.
So here's an example of
putting one up high,
here's an example of putting one down low,
right?
So if you just copy
these values from here,
And we gonna set up our fancy-text class,
and we paste in that,
that'll get you that
pink background there.
So what we have going on,
we have a generalized background,
which is a gradient.
So this is a linear gradient,
there's a bunch of different kinds of
gradients that are possible in CSS.
The linear gradient goes
from one side to the other.
In this case, it's going at a 120 degree
angle with some colors associated with it.
We're not gonna repeat that background,
we can set the size of that background,
and the position of that background
to line it up here on the page.
So the article is where we start from
in terms of getting that in place, and
then we can just make a few changes
to the colors and the values here.
So instead of 120 degrees,
I set this to 135 degrees.
Instead of the pink color that we have to
start with, you can call your variables.
So var(--mocha), and
that's gonna go from 0.
See how it's changing already?
And then var(--tan) to 100%.
So see how that already is looking
a little bit better there, okay?
We're going to leave it at no-repeat.
The size, you can play around with.
What I wanted to do was line up that
background with the E in guide.
And I found that 35% was
a good place to put that.
[LAUGH] You, of course,
can make that narrower by making that
second number smaller,
that will make it less tall.
So if I said 3%,
then we just have a very thin line.
If I said 30%, we get a little bit of
gap there between the line and the E.
See that?
Was kind of unsightly, so
we changed it to 35 to fill it in, okay?
And the background position of 0 and
90% worked for me.
So that's how we put that in place.
And now,
we have a class of fancy-text that we
can apply this anywhere we wanna
use it later on, super fun.
Okay, then the last part
is our color boxes.
So we're gonna start with our .colors.
So we have a div with a class of colors,
and
then we have a bunch of
divs inside of this, right?
So we can say .colors,
and we could say div.
So for all divs inside of a class of
colors, that would select everything.
You could also do, one of my favorite
selectors is, the greater than and a star.
So this says, for
all of the immediate children of colors,
no matter what they are,
whether they're divs or something else,
we wanna style them in the following way.
And what we're gonna do is we're
gonna give it a width, 5rem,
we're gonna give it a height,
4rem, and display, inline-block.
Good, inline block puts
them all together in a row.
You don't have to work with Flexbox,
you don't have to work with grid.
We just pile them all up in a row
really super easy like that.
And then we can say text-align: center,
we can say padding: 1rem 0,
and a margin of 1rem.
So that gives us just boxes
that are there on the page.
You'll have to trust me that those are all
there, that we could say also border:
1pixel solid, var(--coffee), and
you'll see that all the boxes are there.
Now, all we have to do is
assign them the colors.
So .white is background-color
of var(--white).
>> I'm so sorry, what was the nifty
little thing that didn't need flex?
Excellent, no inline block, great.
>> Inline block, display of inline block.
This is how we used to make vertical,
sorry,
horizontal nav bars before
we had Flexbox and grid.
We'd use inline block to put all of our
elements together there on a navbar.
So it's an oldie but a goodie.
Still works great, especially for
something like this, it's really simple.
>> It still do but we used to too?
>> Yes, well, people tend to think we have
to have Flexbox or grid to do it now.
Okay, so now, we can set up
all of the rest of our colors,
green with a background color of green.
And if our text doesn't show,
then we can add to that a color of var,
whatever, vanilla, or white, or something.
Here we go.
And then we can copy-paste,
so the next one's coffee.
Background-color is coffee.
And the next one is vanilla,
which is kind of already all set.
In fact, I'm gonna leave it there,
because this is the same thing over and
over again to fill in the colors for
all the rest of the boxes, okay?
Yes.
>> So the greater than sign specifically
changed it from all descendants
to all immediate children?
>> All immediate children, yes.
So the greater than sign,
it's an indicator of
the parent-child relationship.
It has no impact on specificity or
on the cascade.
It's indicating the relationship
between the two elements.
In this case, between colors and
all of its children.
So we're saying, for
all of those, do these things.
Questions on our style guide?
Yes.
>> Looking at the screenshot, it seemed
like the vanilla box was the only one that
ended up with a border,
cuz it's the same color as the background.
>> Right.
>> It also seems to be changing the size
of that box by adding a border to it.
>> It shouldn't, it shouldn't.
If you have up here, I didn't talk about.
But if you have border-box
sizing applied to the page,
which is this little bit of code here,
okay, so
what we say is the box-sizing
is set to quote border-box.
I'll explain what that is in a moment.
And then we tell everything in
the universe plus everything before it and
after it,
we're going to inherit that box-sizing.
Because once again, of course,
box-sizing is a box model property,
it doesn't inherit, so
we have to tell it to inherit.
What is a border-box?
Anybody have any idea
what a border-box is?
>> Is it the border, the window,
the screen that the user is seeing?
>> Kind of sort of, so
this has to do with how we
calculate widths inside of CSS, okay?
So by default, your width is just the
width of the content itself, that is all.
So if you say width is 400 pixels,
that is the width of the content, period.
If you then add to it,
let's say, 50 pixels of padding,
that's gonna put 50
pixels on all four sides.
What is the effective
width of that item now?
>> It's 100 pixels, 500.
>> 500 pixels, right?
And if we add 50 pixels of
margin on all four sides,
what is its width now effectively?
>> 600.
>> 600 pixels,
because we add to the actual width
property, which is the content.
We add to it the padding, the border,
and the margin, all of that.
Border-box says, ignore the width of the
padding, ignore the width of the border.
When I say the width is 400 pixels,
and I have 50 pixels of padding and
1 pixel of border, the whole thing
when I'm done is 400 pixels wide.
Makes math so much easier.
So the only thing we have to
worry about is the margin.
So I think you'll find most people
are putting this in by default these days.
That's what that little
bit of code is for.